---
layout: page
title: "Manage Student Accounts"
tagline:
---

To be added to a project, students must have already created a TACC account. If your students need to create a TACC account, they can follow our guide below.

#### Creating a Student Account
Students are encouraged to create an account with their institution provided email address. An institution email address is one that your college or university has issued you upon becoming a student and will end with a .edu address.


##### Creating an Account with UT System Credentials
Students from institutions belonging to the UT System are encouraged to create a TACC account with their UT System credentials.

TACC has a single sign-on process for users from UT System affiliated institutions. Students can begin creating their account with their UT System Institution Credentials through [this form](https://portal.tacc.utexas.edu/utdr).

Selecting the school you attend will redirect you to your institution's login page.

Once you have logged in with your institution credentials, click the button labeled **I need to create a TACC account**.

Enter your contact information and account information in the request form.

At this time, you will see a field asking for you to select your PI eligibility. Undergraduate students and graduate students are ineligible to be a PI. Please select that you are *not* PI Eligible.

TACC now requires Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA). To set up MFA, you can follow [this tutorial](https://portal.tacc.utexas.edu/tutorials/multifactor-authentication).


##### Creating an Account without UT System Credentials  
Students from institutions outside of the UT System are still encouraged to create a TACC account with their respective institution issued email address.

 *If you wish to create a TACC account using a personal email address (@gmail.com, @yahoo.com, etc.), the following guide will work for you as well.*

To create a TACC account, redirect your browser to the [TACC User Portal](https://portal.tacc.utexas.edu).

To begin your account request, click the button labeled **Create a TACC Account**.

Review and accept the **New User Information** and the **TACC Usage Policy**.

Enter your contact information and account information in the request form.

At this time, you will see a field asking for you to select your PI eligibility. Undergraduate students and graduate students are ineligible to be a PI. Please select that you are *not* PI Eligible.

Once your account is requested, you will receive a confirmation email within one business day with a link to verify your address.

Once you have verified your email address, you can logon to the [TACC User Portal](https://portal.tacc.utexas.edu). For your first login, you will be prompted to review and agree to the **Terms of Use**.

TACC now requires Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA). To set up MFA, you can follow [this tutorial](https://portal.tacc.utexas.edu/tutorials/multifactor-authentication).

<br>

#### Adding Students to an Allocation
To add students to an allocation, your request for an instructional allocation must be approved.

First, sign in to the [TACC User Portal](https://portal.tacc.utexas.edu).

Hover over the **Allocations** tab in your dashboard and select **Projects and Allocations** to view and manage your projects and allocations.

To add students to an allocation, select **View Project Detail** of the project you wish to add students to.

In the **Users** section, select **Add User**. Search for student TACC accounts by **Last Name**, **Email Address**, or **TACC Username**.

Find the student account in the search results you wish to add, and select **Add Selected User**.

Note that all users on one project will share the allocations of that project and belong to the same UNIX "group". As members of the same UNIX "group", users will typically share the same permissions (read, write, execute, etc.) on a set of files or directories. The UNIX "group" number will usually correspond to the project/allocation number and can be found by selecting **View Project Detail** of a project of your choice on the **Projects and Allocations** page.  

<br>

#### Removing Students from an Allocation
An instructional allocation will last for the duration of the class plus 14 days. At anytime during the instructional allocation period can you remove a student.

To remove a student from an allocation, first sign in to the [TACC User Portal](https://portal.tacc.utexas.edu).

Hover over the **Allocations** tab in your dashboard and select **Projects and Allocations** to view and manage your projects and allocations.

To remove students from an allocation, select **View Project Detail** of the project you wish to remove students from.

In the **Users** section, select **Remove User** to remove a student account from your project.

<br>
---
Return to the [Overview](../index.md)
