# Request an Allocation

Access to the various resources is gained by requesting an "Allocation" to work
on that system. The steps to requesting an allocation are as follows:

## Create a Project

Navigate to the [Projects and Allocations](https://portal.tacc.utexas.edu/projects-and-allocations)
page of the TACC Portal. Click the green **+Create Project** button.

Note: If you do not have a **+Create Project** button, navigate to your
[account profile](https://portal.tacc.utexas.edu/projects-and-allocations), then
click on **Edit Profile** to request "PI Eligibility".

## Complete the Form

Fill out the form with the following information:


&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;***Title:*** (enter course title)

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;***Type:*** (select "Instructional")

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;***Primary Field of Science:*** (choose field from the list)

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;***Secondary Field of Science:*** (choose field from the list)

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;***Description/Abstract:*** (write a short course description)


Once all the fields are filled out, click **Create Project**. This will take you
back to the main Project and Allocation view, where you will find your new
Instructional project.

## Request an Allocation

Click on **View Project Details** for your Instructional project. In the Allocations
section, choose **Request New Allocation**. Choose the machine(s) appropriate for
your course, and request a small number of Service Units. A good general estimate
is to start with 2,000 SUs. You may request more if you run out.

In the "justification" section, briefly describe how the resources will be used.
This may include information on how many students will be in the course, what types
of code they will be running, etc. Most small instructional allocation requests
are resolved within one to two days, but may take up to two weeks.

<br>

---
Return to the [Overview](../index.md)
