# Managing Data

## Navigating the Data Files Section of the UTRC Portal
Data Files is a multi-purpose data repository that enables users to organize and personalize their data files and share them with others. Features include:

- File uploads and downloads
- Searching files
- File manipulation operations (ex. Rename, Move, Copy, Preview, Compress, Extract, Download, Move to Trash)

Data is organized into several categories:

### My Data (Work)
This is your private data workspace, only accessible to you. As a result, you have ownership and read/write permissions over these files and folders.


### My Data (Lonestar6 Scratch)
Similar to the Work space, this is your private data workspace, only accessible to you. It is on the Lonestar6 scratch file system, and subject to a [purge policy](https://docs.tacc.utexas.edu/hpc/lonestar6/#scratchpolicy).

### Community Data
Community Data is data that is viewable by all authorized portal users.

### Shared Workspaces
This is your shared workspace, where you can create project folders (using the **+Add** button) to be shared with other collaborators. Any user added to a specific project by the PI can access data uploaded into that specific project folder.

> Note: A project under Shared Workspaces is a shared space and is different from a project allocation through TACC’s User Portal. Any user can be a PI, Co-PI, and/or Collaborator in the UTRC Portal (this is different from the PI Eligibility Requirements required for TACC’s User Portal).  

### Google Drive
This area contains any files stored in the user's Google Drive if they have added support for Google Drive under their user account.
Additional third-party technologies can be integrated into portals upon request (once deemed compatible with the portal).

<br>

---
Return to the [Overview](index.md)
